'What led to the destruction of the six states were not their weapons or their military tactics — but it was the practice of buying off Qin. The buying-off had weakened their strength. That was the real cause! You may challenge this by asking, “Is that true in every state?” The answer is: “Those that didn’t buy off were destroyed because of those that did. Those that didn’t buy off had lost the needy backups from other states and therefore could not sustain themselves single-handedly. That is what is meant by ‘It was the practice of buying off!’”
Qin State, apart from annexing lands through wars, acquired even through their briberies small towns and large cities. Among all these spoils, the bribed towns and cities tremendously outnumbered those procured through wars. Likewise, among six demised sates, the undoing of states due to briberies disconcertingly outpaced the defeating of those via wars. Thus, wars have no bearing on the insatiable greed of Qin State and the tragedies of six states. Just imagine how their founding fathers, to obtain a patch of land, weathered biting cold and burning heat, and toughed out thistles and thorns. However, their descendants didn’t treasure it but frivolously gave it offhand by relinquishing five towns today and ten cities tomorrow just to pursue peace of a single night. Waking up and looking around, they were surprised to find themselves again besieged by Qin soldiers. Indeed, the lands of six states were limited while the avarice of Qin State was unquenchable. The more frequent the tributes were, the hastier the invasion was. Thus, it is obviously easy to foresee the result of both sides even with no resort to wars, and to claim that their demises were naturally reasonable, just as an ancient saying aptly goes, "The tributes of lands are to Qin as logs are to fire! No more logs, No more fire!" 
Qi State never bribed Qin, but collapsed as well. Why? The reason is that it made peace with Qing and didn’t support other five states, and it was unavoidably defeated by Qin right after Qin swallowed up those five states. With insightful strategies at first, the dukes of Yan and Zhao states were so capable of defending their territories and adhering to moral principles that they didn’t bend themselves over to bribe Qin. Small as Yan was, it was the last to be defeated, which was attributed to its wise military strategy. However, its rapid doom came soon after Prince Dan sent Jing Ke to assassinate the sovereign of Qin. Zhao State waged five wars with Qin with two defeats and three victories. Later, Qin repeatedly assailed Zhao but ended up being repulsed by Li Mu each time. Not until Li was exterminated because of malicious slanders against him, did Han Dan, Capital of Zhao fall under Qin’s control. What a pity that Zhao didn’t cherish Li’s military talent till the end. Amid Qin’s triumph over other four states, Yan and Zhao were isolated and helpless, either militarily or intellectually. Naturally, they were soon defeated to demise. Providing that those three states, Chu, Han, and Wei, had treasured their lands, Qi hadn’t conciliated Qin, Prince Dan hadn’t sent Jing Ke, and Li Mu had been still alive, the fate of those six states, compared with Qin’s, would have been disparate. 
Alas! Those six states could have given advisers of their own countries the lands they used to bribe Qin and bestowed prodigies the same honors and respects they showed to Qin. They could have formed an alliance to fight westward. Were all this to be fulfilled, as I view, Qin would have never dared to wolf down their lands. Woe! The obvious advantages that they could have formed in their favors were waned by the waxing power and menace of Qin, to which their lands were relinquished month in and month out, culminating in their demises. A lesson for us is that an authority should never be quailed by waxing menace and power of foes.
Those six states and Qin were all vassal states, and yet the former were weaker than the latter. Their defeats would have been reversed to victory if they had not bribed Qin. It is true of the situation facing our great country. Were we to follow the footprints of those six states, we would be even inferior to them!
Notes：
1. In the long Chinese history, Warring States Period saw the fragmentation of a country by rivaling vassal states, among which there were seven powerful ones. Those six states mentioned in this argumentative prose refer to the states of Qi, Chu, Yan, Han, Zhao, and Wei (齐、楚、燕、韩、赵、魏). 
2. Su Xun ( 苏洵， 1009-1066), Meishan, Sichuan Province. He and his sons, Su Shi & Su Zhe are known as "3 Su" 